Release: v2.4.0 (#1328)
databricks/databricks-vscode: packages/databricks-vscode/resources/whats-new/2.4.md

<img src="./1.2/databricks-logo.png" alt="databricks-logo" width="100"/>

# Databricks Extension v2.4.0

## What's new?

-   [Databricks Asset Bundles support](#dabs)
-   [Bundle configuration](#dabs-config)

> -   [No environment variables in terminals](#no-env)

Reviewer: This last one doesn't seem like whats-new item to me (it's a behavior change), so maybe it shouldn't be in here? Or change the title of this file to "What's changed?"

Reviewer 2: It's a new behaviour, I think it still fits here

## <a id="dabs"></a> Databricks Asset Bundles support

The extension now supports [Databricks Asset Bundles](https://docs.databricks.com/en/dev-tools/bundles/index.html)! New features include:

-   Easy authentication and configuration of your Databricks Asset Bundles through the Visual Studio Code UI, including **AuthType** profile selection.
-   A **Target** selector in the Databricks extension panel to quickly switch between bundle target environments.

> -   The **Override Jobs cluster** in bundle option in the extension panel to enable easy cluster override.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   The **Override Jobs cluster in bundle** option in the extension panel to enable easy cluster override.
```

> -   A **Bundles Resource Explorer** view, which allows you to browse your bundle resources using the Visual Studio Code UI, deploy your local Databricks Asset Bundle’s resources to your remote Databricks workspace with a single click, and go directly to your deployed resources in your workspace from Visual Studio Code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   A **Bundles Resource Explorer** view, which allows you to browse your bundle resources using the Visual Studio Code UI, deploy your local bundle resources to your remote Databricks workspace with a single click, and browse directly to your deployed resources in your workspace from Visual Studio Code.
```

> -   A **Bundles Variables View**, which enables you to browse and edit your bundle variables using the Visual Studio Code UI. See Bundle Variables View.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   A **Bundles Variables View**, which enables you to browse and edit your bundle variables using the Visual Studio Code UI.
```

> See [our documentation for more information](https://docs..databricks.com/dev-tools/vscode-ext/bundles.html).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more information, see the [Databricks documentation](https://docs.databricks.com/dev-tools/vscode-ext/bundles.html).
```

## <a id="dabs-config"></a> Bundle configuration

> The extension now requires a bundle configuration to be present in the project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The extension now requires a bundle configuration to be present in your Databricks project.
```

> If you don't use Databricks Asset Bundles, the extension will ask you to "migrate" your project. This will only create a `databricks.yml` configuration file with your workspace url.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If your project is not a Databricks Asset Bundles project, the extension will ask you to migrate your project. This just creates a `databricks.yml` bundle configuration file that contains your target workspace host URL.
```

> If you used our extension for a project before, we will migrate it automatically.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If your project is a Databricks Asset Bundles project, the extension migrates it automatically.
```

Reviewer: (I am opting not to, but I had the thought that we might want to explain that a DABs project is one with a databricks.yml.)

Reviewer 2: I'm actually referring to the non-dabs projects for which uses used v1 extension. In that case we already have information about the host and auth, so we create dabs config automatically. Maybe I should rephrase it somehow to make it more clear? (or omit it completely)

When the projects already has DABs config, we don't do any additional migrations

> See [our documentation for more information](https://docs.databricks.com/dev-tools/vscode-ext/index.html#migrate-a-project-to-a-databricks-project).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more information, see the [Databricks documentation](https://docs.databricks.com/dev-tools/vscode-ext/index.html#migrate-project).
```
I created an anchor for that section so it is easier to link to.
